# Code and data used in: "A standardized framework for agile user testing of crop varieties based on experiences with cassava, potato, and sweetpotato"

Triadic comparisons of technology options (tricot) is a research approach to crowdsource the evaluation of suitable technologies for local conditions based on user preferences. Over 8 years, tricot has been applied for participatory selection of crop varieties in 21 countries, testing 347 varieties/genotypes of 24 crops. Experiments have covered more than 115,000 plots on each of which three varieties were tested. During and following each trial, learning opportunities offer implementers the means to better understand what worked and the challenges faced by project implementers, farmers, and tricot developers. Through this iterative, multi-national, and multi-crop co-learning process, a suite of protocols have been developed and adapted into a standardised framework for ensuring the success of tricot trials. We developed this standardised and functional framework, following testing in Ghana, Nigeria, and Rwanda on sweetpotato, potato, and cassava. The standardised routines facilitate training of staff and farmers, trial set-up, digital data collection, feedback, and rapid result dissemination. It is hoped that this framework will ensure that tricot provides actionable and cost-efficient insights across domains and locations, generated through agile participatory and collaborative approaches. Further, we believe that this framework could form the basis for greater application of participatory science in domains traditionally dominated by expert opinion.
